for_window [class="quakeTerm"]  floating enable, resize set 1280 480, move window to position 0 0

workspace 10 output             $secondaryDisplay
workspace 11 output             $secondaryDisplay
workspace 12 output             $secondaryDisplay
workspace 13 output             $secondaryDisplay
workspace 14 output             $secondaryDisplay
workspace 15 output             $secondaryDisplay
workspace 16 output             $secondaryDisplay
workspace 17 output             $secondaryDisplay
workspace 18 output             $secondaryDisplay
workspace 19 output             $secondaryDisplay

workspace F1 output             $thirdDisplay
workspace F2 output             $thirdDisplay
workspace F3 output             $thirdDisplay
workspace F4 output             $thirdDisplay
workspace F5 output             $thirdDisplay
workspace F6 output             $thirdDisplay
workspace F7 output             $thirdDisplay
workspace F8 output             $thirdDisplay
workspace F9 output             $thirdDisplay
workspace F10 output            $thirdDisplay
workspace F11 output            $thirdDisplay
workspace F12 output            $thirdDisplay